### - Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This is an inventory application designed for individuals and small businesses looking for an easier way to manage their products and stock. It allows users to add products with a title, description, image, and quantity, and edit these fields at any time.
### - What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
The app needed a login and sign up screen, a main screen containing a grid of all the user's inventory items, an add item page, and an item details page which shows all details about the item that cannot be fit into the main grid without cluttering the interface. This keeps users in mind because the main functionality of the app is prioritized. The main screen contains their entire inventory so they can view what they need to see. In the future, a big improvement for the app would be adding filtering options to the main grid, so they can view items by quantity or search for an item by name or description.
### - How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
To approach coding the app, I focused on the large screens and main functionalities first. I went through the user flow and thought about how they would be using the app so that each page can navigate seemlessly to the next pages the user will need. This strategy can be applied to any application with a user interface and helps create an intuitive application built for the user, not the developers.
### - How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
While we did not add automated testing to the application in this course, extensive manual testing was used throughout the entire development process. I tried to perform all tasks that the app was capable of and from every edge case possible. This revealed many bugs, as even if the component was functional in a normal use-case, it often broke when I attempted to do something in a different way.
### - Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
When developing the application, I realized that data needed to be shared between many fragments, and this data needed to remain synced between each fragment because multiple fragments could alter this data. While this may not be innovative to an experienced Android developer, using a shared view model to centralize the data was a method I had never implemented before in an app.
### - In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
Having the knowledge of how computers work and how applications are developed allowed me to realize the importance of memory and performance, which led me to implement a RecyclerView to manage the inventory grid items. This is a dynamic list which "recycles" views to prevent unneccessary complete rerendering of the item view and makes the application much more scalable for business with a larger inventory.
